===============================================================================
    Introduction
===============================================================================

Radyx is a file archiver which creates archives in the 7-zip format. It uses
only the LZMA2 compression algorithm. The major difference between Radyx and
7-zip is in the match finder algorithm. Radyx uses the binning step of a radix
sort to find string matches. This algorithm is "embarrassingly parallel"
meaning that very little communication between threads is required. As a
result, only one match finder is required for any number of CPU cores, whereas
7-zip must use a separate match finder for every 2 threads in normal mode and
each thread in fast mode. The memory requirement for Radyx increases relatively
little as extra threads are added. Compression speed depends on the type of
data. It generally seems to be up to 15% faster than 7-zip, but on some unusual
data types (eg. some DNA sequence files) it gains a 2X to 3X speed increase.

Because radix sorting works on blocks of data, Radyx cannot use a sliding
window for the LZMA2 dictionary. Instead, some overlap is used between
consecutive blocks. This requires double the dictionary size to get similar
compression performace to 7-zip, but the memory requirement is only 5-7 times
the dictionary size so this is not a problem. 

The radix match finder only finds the longest match (up to the fast length
value) which slightly decreases compression performance when using optimized
encoding (level 5 and up). To compensate, Radyx has a hybrid mode which adds a
small sliding window dictionary and hash chain. This is enabled at level 7 and
above.

Radyx has NO WARRANTY and is released under the GNU General Public License 3.0:
www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html


===============================================================================
    Radyx 0.9.1 Command Line
===============================================================================

The command line format is 7-zip compatible wherever possible:

radyx a [<switch>...] <base_archive_name> [<arguments>...]

<arguments> ::= <switch> | <wildcard> | <filename> | <list_file>
<switch>::= -<switch_characters>[<option>]
<list_file> ::= @{filename}

The '/' switch character is not supported for portability reasons.

Extraction is not supported in this version, so 7-zip or a compatible program
must be used for this. The only valid command is 'a' to add files to a new
archive.

See the 7-zip documentation for more details about switches. The -mb switch has
a different meaning in Radyx and extra switches (-ar, -mds, -mo, -q, -z) have
been added. The -ma switch has an expanded range of values.

The following switches are recognized:

--
   Stop switch parsing (allows archive names starting with '-')

-ar=<on|off>
   Asynchronous reading of input files. Allows compression to occur while
   reading data. This increases the memory requirement by one dictionary size.

-i[<recurse_type>]<file_ref>
   <recurse_type> ::= r[- | 0]
   <file_ref> ::= @{listfile} | !{wildcard}
   Specifies additional filenames to include.

-ma=<0|1|2>
   Set compression mode: 0 = fast, 1 = normal, 2 = best (hybrid).
   Default is 1.

-mb={N}[b|k|m]
   *** Note: different from 7-zip. Coder binding is fixed in Radyx.
   Set buffer size for buffering of linked lists. This should normally be left
   at the default value which varies from 128 kb - 2 Mb depending on the
   dictionary size and number of threads. Processors with no L3 cache such as
   the Intel Atom require a small value (4 kb - 16 kb) for fastest performance.

-md={N}[b|k|m|g]  (256 kb - 4 Gb)
   Set the dictionary size. Default is 32 Mb. A maximum dictionary size of
   1/16th of the total RAM installed in the computer is recommended.

-mds={N}[b|k]  (0 - 64 kb)
   Set the secondary dictionary size for hybrid mode. Default is 4 kb.

-mf=<on|off>
   Enable / disable BCJ filtering for executable files. Default is on.

-mfb={N}  (even numbers 6 - 254)
   Set fast length (fast bytes). When a match of at least this length is
   encountered, it is encoded without any further attempt at optimization. This
   must be an even number. Default is 32.

-mlc={N}  (0 - 4)
   Set the number of literal context bits. Default is 3.

-mlp={N}  (0 - 4)
   Set the number of literal position bits. Default is 0.

-mmc={N}
   Set the number of match cycles (hybrid mode only). Default is 8.

-mmt={N}  (1 - number of cores)
   Set the number of threads to use. This should not be greater than the
   number of CPU cores in your computer, which is the default.

-mo={N}  (1 - 14)
   Set the overlap between consecutive data blocks, in units of 1/16th of the
   dictionary size. Default is 2. It is typically better to increase the
   dictionary size than the overlap for higher compression.

-mpb={N}
   Set the number of position bits. Default is 2.

-ms=<off | on | [e] [{N}f] [{N}[b|k|m|g]]>
   Enables or disables solid mode. The default is on. In solid mode, files are
   grouped together for compression which normally improves the compression
   ratio.
   e            Use a separate solid block for each new file extension
   {N}f         Set the limit for number of files in one solid block
   {N}[b|k|m|g] Set the limit for the total size of a solid block in bytes

-mtc=<off|on>
   Store file creation timestamps.

-q
   Set quiet mode. Only errors and warnings will be displayed.

-r[- | 0]
   Recurse subdirectories. Append '-' to disable (default) or '0' to recurse
   for wildcards only.

-ssw
   Compress files that are open for writing.

-w{dir_path}
   Set working directory.

-x[<recurse_type>]<file_ref>
   <recurse_type> ::= r[- | 0]
   <file_ref> ::= @{listfile} | !{wildcard}
   Specifies filenames or wildcards to exclude from the archive. If recursion
   is enabled, the exclusion can include a path which must match part or all
   of the path of files to be excluded, starting from the directory where
   recursion will begin.

-z={N}  (1 - 1000)
   Incompressible data filter. This performs a fast check early in the radix
   sort stage to determine if the block of data will compress poorly or not at
   all, so time can be saved by storing the data. A setting of 10 will detect
   most of the data in zip files as incompressible. Note that zip files are
   often compressible by LZMA but only by a few percent.
